=head1 The ColorManager package's color names

The ColorManager package supplies ANSI terminal color services
to other code. It should be fully integrated into these commands:

=over

=item * sjdUtils.pm, via its I<ColorManager> class

=item * sjdUtils.py, via its I<ColorManager> class

=item * alogging.py, when owned by an sjdUtils.py instance

=item * colorstring (Perl) -- not yet fully integrated.

=item * hilite (Perl), could better be called 'colorize'

=item * colorizeExpr (Perl), via sjdUtils.pm

=item * uncolorize (Python), via sjdUtils.py

=item * show256Colors (?), not yet integrated

=back


=head2 Color naming conventions

The color names available are defined here.
This supercedes anything in specific scripts (they I<should> match).

=head3 Basic colors

The known basic color names are the usual ANSI terminal colors:

    "black"   : 0
    "red"     : 1
    "green"   : 2
    "yellow"  : 3
    "blue"    : 4
    "magenta" : 5
    "cyan"    : 6
    "white"   : 7
    "default" : 9

"off" is a synonym for "black".

=head3 Basic effects

The known effect names are:

    "bold"       : 1   aks 'bright'
    "faint"      : 2
    "italic"     : 3   (rare)
    "underline"  : 4   aka 'ul'
    "blink"      : 5
    "fblink"     : 6?  aka 'fastblink' (rare)
    "reverse"    : 7   aka 'inverse'
    "concealed"  : 8   aka 'invisible' or 'hidden'
    "strike"     : 9   aka 'strikethru' or 'strikethrough'
    "plain"      : 0   (can be used to express "no special effect"

"blink" and "fblink" are suppressed if the environment variable B<NOBLINK>
is set.

Ideally, each effects can be turned on and off separately (so that any
combination would be possible). To turn an effect on, use the name as listed;
to turn it off, use the name prefixed by "!", for example "!bold" to turn
off bold.
However, terminal program support for turning effects off seems inconsistent.

The "bold" effect usually appears as a much brighter version of the color,
so is often used as if it provides additional colors.

Not all terminal programs support all effects (see section below).
You can check your terminal program's support with:

    colorstring --effects


=head3 Non-basic colors

A complete color name consists of:
    a foreground color F,
    a background color B, and
    an effect E (possibly with leading "!" to negate it)

These are separated by "/". If leading components are omitted, their
following slash must still be present (so one can tell the difference
between foreground and background colors, which have the same names).

Multiple simultaneous effects are not yet available; but if/when they are,
the additional effects will be expressed by subsequent "/"-separated tokens.

For example:
    red/blue
    yellow/black/italic
    /green/bold

Setting the foreground
and background colors the same is available, though unreadable.


=head2 Name patterns and combinations

For any foreground basic color name F,
background basic color name B (from the color list), and
any effect name E (including any "!"-negated effect name),
these combination names are supported:

    F          -- foreground color (code +30)
    /B         -- background color (code +40)
    F/B        -- foreground F over background B
    E          -- effect E (code to turn on, +20 to turn back off)
    E/F        -- foreground F with effect E (use E = "bold" for bright colors)
    E//B       -- background B with effect E
    E/F/B      -- foreground F with effect E over background B

So, for example, these are valid color names:

    red
    magenta/yellow
    bold/green/yellow
    green/green
    green/blink
    /red/blink
    /off/black/plain

There are about 1000 combinations, though support for effects and
combinations varies wildly by terminal type.

B<Note>: Not all effects are supported on all terminals and terminal programs.
Most support fg and bg colors plus bold, reverse, and perhaps underline.
Some support more than 16 colors, but there is no support for that here yet.

See my C<colorstring> command for some additional information; you can also
check the behavior of your terminal or terminal program with:

    colorstring --list

You can tell C<ColorManager> to include I<only> certain effects, by passing a
list of the desired effect name in the I<effects> parameter to the constructor.


F, G, and/or E can be combined in these ways:

=over

=item * F -- foreground color F

=item * /B -- background color B

=item * F/B -- foreground color F with background color B

=item * E -- effect E

=item * E/F -- effect E with foreground color F (for example, I<bold/red>)

=item * E/F/B -- effect E with foreground color F and background color B

=item * E//B -- effect E with background color B

=back


=head2 Support in some common terminal programs:

=over

=item * B<Terminal> (Mac OS X):  blink, bold, faint, inverse, invisible, ul
(not fblink, italic, or strike).

=item * B<xterm>: blink (but only when the window is focused),
bold, inverse, invisible, italic, strike, ul
(not faint, fblink).

=item * B<putty>: bold, inverse, ul
(not blink, faint, fblink, invisible, italic, or strike).

=item * B<gnone-terminal>: bold, faint, inverse, invisible, italic, strike, ul
(not blink or fblink).
Profiles have an "Allow bold text" setting.

=item * B<iterm2>:
bold (set to true bold or to bright),
italic (preference setting, but doesn't work for me,
blink (preference setting),
faint,
ul.

=back

You can use C<colorstring> with the I<--effects> or I<--list> options
to check support by displaying samples.

I<--xterm256> is not yet supported. That, and/or color names from
the X F<rgb.txt> file may be supported in the future.


=head2 The ANSI terminal escapes

The basic commands are coded in the form:
    ESC [ n1;n2...m

where B<n1>, B<n2>, etc. are number:

Basic foreground color numbers:
    30 black  31 red      32 green  33 yellow
    34 blue   35 magenta  36 cyan   37 white

Basic background color numbers:
    40 black  41 red      42 green  43 yellow
    44 blue   45 magenta  46 cyan   47 white

Effects numbers:
    0 "plain"     reset all
    1 "bold"      bold
    2 "faint"     faint (rarely supported)
    3 "italic"    italic or inverse (rarely supported)
    4 "ul"        underline
    5 "blink"     blink
    6 "fblink"    fast blink (rarely supported)
    7 "inverse"   inverse
    8 "invisible" hidden (rarely supported)
    9 "strike"    strikethru (rarely supported)
   10...19        select font n (rarely supported)

Xterm adds controls to turn off some of these effects:
   22             bold off
   27             inverse off
   24             ul off
   25             blink off

Extended foreground (xterm256)
   38;5;n   (for color number 0..255)

Extended background (xterm256)
   48;5;n   (for color number 0..255)

Example: for bold red on cyan background:
    \e[1;31;46m


=head2 Expressing escape strings

It may be difficult or impossible to type such escape sequences by hand,
or to put a literal ESC character inside a string. C<colorstring> can provide
the escape sequence in various forms. For example, to get a color escape sequence
that you can paste directly into a C<bash> prompt string, use:

    colorstring --bash red

which will print C<\[\e[31m\]>.


